- [Instructor] Now let's take a look at the POST request.
Of course it's another HTTP request type
and POST is used to POST or process
or manipulate information on the server site.
So when you make a request from the client to the server,
the server is going to process that information
and give you a response back.
Typically, POST is used to modify data into a data store.
Now that data store be an xfile, or it could be an XML file,
or for that matter, it could even be a database.
And when we say modify data,
it means you either want to insert or record
or you want to edit it or you want to delete it,
all of these qualify as modified data used cases.
So all the surfing that you guys do
on a daily basis like registering yourself as a new user
on a website or checking out a shopping cart,
all of these are very typical use cases
for the POST request.
The data that you send along in a POST request
is always going to be in a separate component,
which is called payload of the request object,
so it is never going to be exposed in the URL,
which is why POST is considered to be a secured request,
Moreover, the data that you can send out in a post request
can be of unlimited character length,
of course with a few caveats
because it will depend upon the application
and the server configuration
which could possibly limit the character length.
Lastly, POST request is a nonidempotent request.
Let's take a look at this diagram.
Let's say the user comes in through the browser
and tries to check out her shopping cart.
When she submits the request you must have already seen
that you're asked to enter your credit card credentials
and then when you submit them,
you're always shown a pop up to not refresh the browser
or go back to the previous page.
Why do you think that happens?
Checking out shopping cart is a POST request.
It's going to change data on the server side.
The money is going to be debited from the account
and the card is going to be ordered for that user.
So let's say if the user tries
to check out that shopping cart again
and over again, in this case the POST request is going
to be made again which means the changes
on the server side with respect
to that request will happen all over again.
This is not a very good situation
because if you try to do the POST request again
and again, the user is basically trying
to buy the same shopping cart thrice.
So, these kind of requests which you can not go
and run over and over are called nonidempotent requests.
That's because they tend to change the data
on the server side so we have to be careful
whenever we make a POST request
and that's exactly why all the web applications
show you those information messages asking you not
to refresh your page or go back to the previous page.